the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has called for greater
quantities of Aid to get into Northern
Gaza in particular and these sentiments
were echoed by the British foreign
secretary David Cameron as the pair held
a joint press conference just a short
time ago in Washington
DC we're looking at a number of critical
things that need to happen in the coming
days including opening a new Northern
point of entry for assistance into Gaza
uh using ashdod on a regular basis
maximizing the flow of assistance from
Gordon um as well as putting in place uh
a much more effective deconfliction
mechanism with the humanitarian groups
that are providing assistance uh just
yesterday more than 400 trucks were
cleared to go into Gaza and that is the
most since October 7th in any given day
but what matters is results and
sustained results and this is what we
will be looking at very carefully in the
days
ahead we want to see 500 trucks a day we
want to see the water switch back on we
want to see Ash DOD and a northern
Crossing Point opened and crucially we
want to see this deconfliction because
getting Aid to Gaza on its own isn't
enough you've got to be able to get Aid
around Gaza and as we saw with the
tragic killing of the world Central
kitchen workers unless you have that
deconfliction other things like that
could um happen we have Mike Hannah
joining us now from Washington DC so
Mike the two men speaking in Washington
just a short time ago obviously there
was a lot of focus on the war on Gaza um
what was the takeaway message from that
press conference when it came to Gaza
and
Israel well the primary message was that
both the Secretary of State and the
foreign secretary are in complete
accordance on the situation in Gaza they
are both arguing for more humanitarian
Aid to go in they both Express the hope
that Israel will meet its commitments to
allow more humanitarian Aid into Gaza
and they also agree though that Hamas is
a stumbling block to getting a
negotiated ceasefire or pause in the
ongoing conflict uh ignoring Israeli
intransigence in the matter and on the
issue of arms to Israel once again
complete agreement both the US Secretary
of State and the British foreign
secretary saying that arms will continue
to Israel despite concern among many
particularly here in the United States
about the way in which these weapons are
used so certainly complete agreement
between the two politicians at this news
conference and um the Secretary of State
made some interesting comments when it
came to the ra um operation because we
heard earlier today for the prime
minister of Israel saying that he has a
date for The Invasion but the Secretary
of State saying that the US uh that date
hasn't been communicated to them how are
we to understand
that well it is a slightly complicated
situation because in past days this
Secretary of State said that Israel had
been asked to uh communicate with the us
about any potential operation in rougher
and even to go so far as to discuss how
it was going to preserve civilian life
during such an operation but now from
what the Secretary of State said it
appears that this is no longer the case
uh making very clear that uh Israel has
not consulted the US in any way on its
operation in Gaza even though as you
point out the Israeli Prime Minister
says it is going to go ahead so there
appears to have been a shift in impetus
over here where at One Stage the US was
asking Israel to let it know about its
operation in Rafa and also how it was
going to carry it out at this stage it
appears that the US is not expecting
anything from what the US Secretary of
State said from Israel with regards to
any operation in Rafa all right thank
you Mike Hannah thanks for that update
from Washington DC
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from
aler